---
title: "[자료구조] 01. Software Enginerring Principles"
layout: article
aside: false
sidebar: false
categories: [KyungHee Univ., C++, Data Structure]
license: false
show_subscribe: false
show_title: true
---

## The Software Life Cycle
- Problem analysis
- Requirements elicitation
- Software specification
- High and low level design
- Implementation
- Testing and Verification
- Delivery
- Operation
- Maintenance
어떤식으로 만들어가느냐
문제가 뭐냐
문제 도출, 
어떤걸 구현해야할까
디자인
구현
디버깅, 동작 확인



## Software Engineering
- A disciplined approach to the desing, production, and maintenance of computer programs
- that are developed on time and within cost estimates,
-using tools that help to manage the size and complexity of the resulting software products.

시간내에, 금액한도 내에서 개발해야한다.

On time and within cost estimates

## Programmer ToolBoxes
- Hardware : the computers and their peripheral devices
- Software : operation systems, editors, compilers, interpreters, debugging systems, test-data generators, and so on
- Ideaware : shared body of knowledge

## An Algorithm is ...
- A logical sequence of discrete steps that describes a complete solution to a given problem computable in a finite amount of time.

## Goals of Quality Software
- It works.
- It can be modified without excessive time and effort.
- It is reusable.
- It is completed on time and within budget.

동작하는가?
고치는데 얼마나 적은 시간과 노력이 들어가는가?
스파게티코드로 작성하게 되면 고치기가 힘들어진다.
재사용할 수 있는가?
매번 할 때마다 다시 만들기 힘들기 때문에
시간과 예산안에서 완성되는가?

## Detailed Program Specification
- Tells what the program must do, but not how it does it.
- Is written documentation about the program.

## Abstraction
- A model of a complex system that includes only the details essential to the perspective of the viewer of the system.
- Programs are abstractions.

사용자 입장에서 중요한 것만 보이도록

## Information Hiding
- The practice of hiding the details of module with the goal of controlling access to the details from the rest of the system.

중요한것만 보이고, 나머지는 보이지 않도록.


## Stepwise Refinement
- A problem is approached in stages.<br>
Similar steps are followed during each stage, with the only difference being the level of detail involved.<br>
Some variations
> Top-down, Bottom-up, Functional decomposition, Round-trip gestalt design

round 머시기 : 객체로 바라봄

## Procedural vs. Object-Oriented Code
"Read the specification of the software you want to build.<br>
Underline the **verbs if you are after procedural code**, the **nouns if you aim for an object-oriented program**."<br>
    - Grady Booch, "What is and Isn't Object Oriented Design," 1989.

## Two Approaches to Building Manageable Modules
표

어떤일을 하는가? / 어떤 객체가 있는가?


## Object-Oriented Design
A technique for developing a program in which the solution is expressed in terms of objects self-contained entities composed of data and operations on that data.

## For Each Test Case:
- Determine inputs.
- Determine the expected behavior of the program.
- Run the program and observe the resulting behavior.
- Compare the expected behavior and the actual behavior.

## Program Verification
- Program Verification is the process of determining the degree to which a software product fulfills its specifications.


## Verification vs. Validation (V & V)
- Program verification asks, "Are we doing the job right?"
일을 올바르게 하고 있는가?
- Program validation asks, "Are we doing the right job?"
올바른 일을 하고 있는가?
제대로된 일 하고있어?

## Types of Erros
- Specification
- Design
- Coding
- Input

아래 단계가 될수록 비용이 든다. 에러는 조기에 발견하는 것이 좋다.

## 사진

## Controlling Erros
- Robustness : The ability of a program to recover following an error; the ability of a program to continue to operate within its environment
- Preconditions : Assumptions that must be true on entry into an operation or function for the postconditions to be guaranteed.
- Postconditions : Statements that describe what results are to be expected at the exit of an operation or function, assuming that the preconditions are true.

에러가 있더라도 죽지않고 환경에 적응하는 
