---
title: "[자료구조] 02. Data Design and Implementation"
layout: article
aside: false
sidebar: false
categories: [KyungHee Univ., C++, Data Structure]
license: false
show_subscribe: false
show_title: true
---

### Data
- The representation of information in a manner suitable for communication or analysis by humans or machines
- Data are the nouns of the programming world:
  - The objects that are manipulated
  - The information that is processed

Data : 사람 또는 기계가 분석할 수 있도록 정보를 표현해둔 것.

<br>

### Data Abstraction
- Separation of a data type's logical properties from its implementation.

예를 들어, 우리가 코딩을 할 때 int a = 3; 이라고 했을때 a가 3의 정수값의 역할을 하는 것은 알지만 실제로 컴퓨터(또는 언어)에서 어떤 식으로 이것을 구현하는지에는 모르고 관심을 갖지 않는다.(컴퓨터(또는 언어)가 프로그램 입장, 우리가 유저 입장) 이런것처럼 프로그램을 만들때도 마찬가지로 프로그램이 어떤식으로 구현 부분을 유저에게 숨기는 것이 좋다.

<br>

### Data Encapsulation

- is the separation of the representation of data from the applications that use the data at a logical level; a programming language feature that enforces information hiding.

유저가 이용하는 application level 부분을 제외한 부분을 Encapsulation하여 데이터를 분리하고 숨긴다.

<br>

### Encapsulated C++ Data Type int
사진

<br>

### Abstract Data Type (ADT)
- A data type whose properties (domain and operations) are specified independently of any particular implementation.

properties와 implementation을 구분.

<br>

### Data Structure
- A collection of data elements whose organization is characterized by accessing operations that are used to store and retrieve the individual data elements
- The implementation of the composite data members in an abstract data type

데이터를 어떻게 저장하고, 어떻게 꺼내고, 어떻게 가공하고, ... 등 형태가 여러가지로 달라진다.

<br>

### Features of Data Structures
- They are decomposed into their component elements
- The arrangement of the elements affects how each element is accessed
- Both the arrangement of the elements and the way they are accessed can be encapsulated

데이터 구조에 따라 데이터에 access하는 방법이 달라진다.

<br>

### Data from 3 different levels
- Application (or user) level : modeling real-life data in a specific context.
- Logical (or ADT) level : abstract view of the domain and operations.
- Implementation level : specific representation of the structure to hold the data items, and the coding for operations.

간단히 보면, Logical Level에 어떤 데이터가 있고, 어떤 동작을 하는지가 있을 것이고, 이를 구현하는 것이 Implementation Level, 사용하는 것이 Application Level이다.<br>
우리는 Logical level과 Implementation level에 집중할 것이다.

<br>

### 4 Basic Kinds of ADT Operations
- Constructor : creates a new instance (object) of an ADT.
- Transformer : changes the state of one or more of the data values of an instance.
- Observer : allows us to observe the state of one or more of the data values without changing them.
- Iterator : allows us to precess all the components in a data structure sequentially.

<br>

### Abstraction and Built-In Types
- A built-in simple type such as int or float is an abstraction whose underlying implementation is defined in terms of machine-level operation
  - Remind the previous example of the int type
- The same perspective applies to built-in composite data type previded in programming languages to build data objects

simple type : 쪼개면 더이상 의미가 없어지는 데이터 타입  ex) int, float<br>
Composite data type : simple type이 모여서 구성된 데이터 타입

<br>

### Composite Data type
A composite data type is a type which
- stores a collection of individual data componets under one variable name,
- and allows the individual data componets to be accessed.

<br>

### Two Forms of Composite Data Types
|UNSTRUCTURED | STRUCTURED |
|-------------|------------|
|Components are not organized with respect to one another. | The organization determines method used to access individual data components. |
|ex) classes and structs | ex) arrays |

<br>

### C++ Built-In Data Types
사진

<br>

### Records at the Logical Level
A record is a composite data type made up of a finite collection of not necessarily homogeneous elements called members or fields.

Record는 Composite data type이고, 구성된 데이터들이 같은 데이터 타입일 필요가 없다.

<br>

### Accessing struct members
The member selection operator (period .) is used between the variable name and the member identifier to access individual members of a record (struct or class) type variable.

<br>

### Valid struct operations
- Operations valid on an entire struct type variable:
  - assignment to another struct variable of same type,
  - pass as a parameter to a fuction (either by value or by reference),
  - return as the value of a function.

<br>

### Records at the Application Level
- Useful for modeling objects that have a number of characteristics
  - collect various types of data about an object
  - refer to the whole object by a single name
  - Refer to the different members of the object by name
- Also useful for defining other programmer-defined data structures

<br>

### Records at the Implementation Level
- In order to implement
  - Memory cells must be reserved for the data
  - The accessing fuctions must be determined
- Base address
  - the location in memory of the first cell in the record
- Member-length-offset table
  - A table containing the number of memory locations needed for each member of the record

Base address : record의 메모리 첫번째 주소<br>
Member-length-offset table : record의 각각 멤버들의 메모리 주소를 알기 위해 필요

<br>

### One-Dimensional Array at the Logical Level
- A one-dimensional array is a structured composite data type made up of a finite, fixed size __(known at compile time)__ collection of homogeneous __(all of the same data type)__ elements having relative positions and to which there is direct access __(any element can be accessed immediately)__.
- Array operations __(creation, storing a value, retrieving a value)__ are performed using a declaration and indexes.

1차원 array는 structured composite data type이고, 유한하고 정해진 크기로 만들어지고, 동일한 데이터 타입의 데이터들로 구성된다. array의 크기 바인딩타임은 컴파일타임이다.

<br>

### One-Dimensional Array at Application Level
- The natural structure for the storage of lists of like data elements
- Examples
  - Grocery lists
  - Price lists
  - Lists of phone numbers
  - Lists of student records
  - Lists of characters (a string)

<br>

### Implementation Example
사진

array는 내부의 데이터 크기가 모두 같기 때문에 member-length-offset table이 필요가 없다.

<br>

### One-Dimensional Arrays in C++
- The index must be of an integral type (char, short, int, long, or enum).
- The index range is always 0 through the array size minus 1.
- Arrays cannot be assigned one to another, and cannot be the return type of a function.

<br>

### Two-Dimensional Array at the Logical Level
- A two-dimensional array is a structured composite data type made up of a finite, fixed size collection of homogeneous elements __ordered in two dimensions__ having relative positions and to which there is direct access.
- Array operations (creation, storing a value, retrieving a value) are performed using a declaration and a __pair of indexes__ (called row and column) representing the component’s position in each dimension.

<br>

### Two-Dimensional Array at Application Level
- The ideal data structure for modeling data that are logically structured as a table with rows and columns
  - The first dimension : rows
  - The second dimension : columns

<br>

### Implementation Example
사진 30, 32, 33

실제로 int type은 4byte

<br>

### C++ class data type
- A class is an unstructured type that encapsulates a fixed number of data components __(data members)__ with the functions (called __member functions__) that manipulate them.
- The predefined operations on an instance of a class are whole assignment and component access.

배열과 달리 assignment가 가능하다. -> a = b; 가능

<br>

### Use of C++ data type class
- Variables of a class type are called __objects__ (or instances) of that particular class.
- Software that declares and uses objects of the class is called a __client__.
- Client code uses public member functions (called methods in OOP) to handle its class objects.
- __Sending a message__ means calling a public member function.

class는 object에 대한 specification과 같고, 실제로 만들어진 instance를 object라 한다.

<br>

### Familiar Class Instances and Member Functions
- The member selection operator ( . ) selects either data members or member functions.
- Header files _iostream_ and _fstream_ declare the istream, 
ostream,and ifstream, ofstream I/O classes.
- Both _cin_ and _cout_ are class objects and _get_ and _ignore_ 
are member functions.
- These statements declare myInfile as an instance of class ifstream and invoke member function open.

<br>

### Scope Resolution Operator (::)
- C++ programs typically use several class types.
- Different classes can have member functions with the same identifier, like Write( ).
- Member selection operator is used to determine the class whose member function Write( ) is invoked.
- In the implementation file, the scope resolution operator is used in the heading before the member function’s name to specify its class.

<br>

### A Short Review of Object-Oriented Programming
- Three inter-related constructs: classes, objects, and inheritance
• Objects are the basic run-time entities in an object-oriented system.
- A class defines the structure of its objects.
- Classes are organized in an “is-a” hierarchy defined by inheritance.

<br>

### Inheritance
- Allows programmers to create a new class that is a specialization of an existing class.
- The new class is called a derived class of the existing class; the existing class is the base class of the new class.

상속하는 클래스(원래 있던 클래스)를 existing/baseclass<br>
상속받는 클래스(새로 생긴 클래스)를 derived class

<br>

### Inheritance & Polymorphism
- __Inheritance__ fosters reuse by allowing an application to take an already-tested class and derive a class from it that inherits the 
properties the application needs
- __Polymorphism__ : the ability of a language to have duplicate method names in an inheritance hierarchy and to apply the method that is appropriate for the object to which the method is applied
- Inheritance and polymorphism combined allow the programmer to build useful hierarchies of classes that can be reused in different applications